# Context

Tenx allows the user to attach **context** to a session - that is, information
that is provided to the model, but is not editable. Often, this is reference
material - manuals or documentation - but it can also be examples of output the
user wants, style guides, tweaks to the model's prompt, or anything else that
the user needs the model to know.

Tenx has a flexible - and growing - set of commands for including and managing
context. All the contxt commands are grouped as subcommands under `tenx ctx`.

<img src="examples/tenx_ctx.svg"/>

One command to note here is *refresh*. Some context types, like *url* and
*ruskel* take some time to fetch or generate. Usually, this is done once when
the context is first added, but **refresh** lets you regenerate the data if
there have been updates.

The configuration file also has a [context section](./config-context.md), where
you can define default context that is added to every session. 


## Context Types

### cmd

The *cmd* context type executes a shell command and uses its output as context. The command is run with `sh -c`, and both stdout and stderr are captured. This can be useful for including the output of tools like `git log`, compiler messages, or command-line tool output in your context.

### file

The *file* context type is similar to *text*, but it reads the text from a
file, and the name of the file is associated with the context and visible to
the model. The content of the file context is refreshed every time we contact
the model, so you can edit the file and the model will see the changes.

### project_map

The *project map* is a special context that is auto-generated by Tenx itself.
It's essentially just list of files included in the project, as seen in the
`tenx files` command. Tenx allows a model to request to view or edit files in
the project if needed, and the project map is how it knows what files are
available.

### ruskel

[Ruskel](https://github.com/cortesi/ruskel) is a tool that extracts the public
surface area of a Rust project - that is, the public functions, types, traits,
and modules - and renders it to syntactically valid Rust code. This is useful
for including the API of a Rust module in the context of a session. This can be
either local or any crate on [crates.io](https://crates.io).

See the [Working in Rust](./rust.md) example for a demonstration of how to use
`ruskel` in practice.

### text

The *text* context type is the simplest - it's just a string of text. `tenx ctx
text` command can load context from a file, or you can provide the text
directly through stdin.

### url

The *url* context type fetches the content of a URL and provides it to the model.
